# Up The Comp
#### Video Demo:  <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cyKyVhHWflw>
#### Description:

"Up The Comp" is a flask web application created for the competitive gamer with no friends. If you're looking for a teammate for ranked play, want to create or join a competitive team in your favorite game, or just simply want to discuss your favorite competitive game with others who share your passion, this website is for you.

Within the project directory, there is a static folder that contains the images used for the various game titles, the background images for each webpage, a favicon icon file for the logo, and the CSS stylesheet created for this project. The style choices I made were really based off of the background images I chose for the welcome page and other webpages. I picked a color scheme that worked really well with each background image and ran with that for the entirety of the project.

There is also an app.py file in the project directory that contains all of the python code used for the project (around 800 lines of code). The majority of this code is simply defining the routes used for all the HTML files. Besides all of the functions that define each route used for the webpages, there is also a function defined called "login_required". This function ensures that many of these webpages cannot be visited unless you are logged in to an account. This is absolutely crucial to ensure that each webpage is accessed correctly. Along with the login_required function, I also wrote a function called "errorcode" that returns the errorcode.html template and displays an error to the user if they have made a mistake on a webpage or accessed a page incorrectly.

I also created a database named "project.db" contained within the project directory that contains all of the user accounts and account information, the games that are displayed via the search query, the games users have added to their home page, all discussion board posts, ranks that have been added under user accounts for particular games, all messages sent and received between users, all team invites sent between users, all the teams that have been created, and all the members that have joined those teams.

The last item within the project directory is of course the HTML templates used for this project. I used 22 templates for this project, but I will explain the function of each as I walk through the functionality of the website rather than explaining them individually.

Before accessing the website, I should point out there is a layout.html template that contains the design layout for all of the other HTML templates and the information for the banner displayed at the top of each webpage. All of the other HTML templates are just extensions of that layout.html template and essentially define the body of each webpage.

When first visiting the website, you are greeted with the welcome.html page that displays general information about the website and gives you the option to register or login to an account. By clicking the register button, it returns the register.html page and you can create an account here. After registering an account, you are then taken to the login.html page where you are able to login to your account and access your home page which returns the index.html template.

After accessing your home page, almost all other routes are now available to you. The banner at the top of the page contains most of the website content to explore. Initially, the body of your home page simply says to add any games you're interested in. Clicking this button will load the games.html template and allow you to add different games to your home page. Doing this allows you quick access to visit the discussion boards for the specific games you're interested in rather than always sifting through every game contained in the database.

After adding the games to your home page, you can click the view board button which will load the boards.html template and display the discussion board for the chosen game. Any discussion post created related to that game will display in a table that contains the name of the poster, the description of the post, the rank of the poster if they have chosen to display it, the number of players they are looking for, and the date and time the post was made. You have the option to create your own post which will return the createpost.html template and display a form to create the post. Next to each post, if the post is your own, you have the option to remove it from the discussion board. If it is not your post, you have the option to view the profile of the poster or send them a message. Clicking the send message button will send you to the sendmessage.html template and display a form to send a message to that user. After sending the message, it will take you to the messages.html template where you can view all of the messages you've received and sent. Clicking the view profile button will send you to the profile.html template and display all of their information they have chosen to display on their account.

Back on the home page, the next item on the banner is the create/join team option which when clicked, displays a drop down menu with option to either create a team or join a team. Selecting create a team will return the createteam.html template which displays a form where you can create a competitive team. After creating a team, this will return the invitemembers.html template that allows you to invite other users to your team. After inviting members, you will be sent to the teams.html template which displays all of the created competitive teams and the information related to them. The teams.html template is also displayed if you selected the join a team option on the home page. Next to each team, if the team is yours, you have the option to invite more members to the team, remove members from the team (returning the removemembers.html template), or
delete the team entirely (returning the deleteteam.html template). If the team is not yours, you have the option to message the owner of that team or view the owner's profile.

In the middle of the banner on the home page, there is also a search bar feature where you can search for the game of your choice rather than adding it to your home page. Searching for a game will return the search.html template and display the search results of your query.

On the right side of the home page banner, you have an account dropdown menu and a logout option. The logout option simply returns you to the welcome page and logs you out of your account. The account dropdown has three different options: view your messages, team invites, or account settings. The messages option takes you to the messages.html template that displays your sent and received messages between other users. The team invites option returns the teaminvites.html template which simply displays any team invites you've received.

The settings option takes you to your profile page (settings.html) and displays any account information you've added to your account. Initially, there is no information. At the bottom of the page, there is an option to change your account information that returns the changesettings.html template. This will display a form where you can add information about yourself and also add your rank achieved within your chosen games. There is also option to reset this information at the bottom of your profile page. The final option allows you to change your password. Clicking this option will return the changepassword.html template and display the form used to change your account password.

Thank you so much for reading, and I really hope you enjoy the website!

